foreign
welcome back everyone uh thanks so much
for tuning in to uh the Morey's
presentation I mean what a rich
conversations are in like these are
ideas that I have been thinking about
but haven't had the words to vocalize so
that was a really really great
discussion
definitely and I think it is very
powerful to now move into Tiara's
presentation because I think it's a nice
way of connecting with this idea of you
know making new metaphors building new
worlds imagining new places or ways also
of connecting uh say certain traditions
and stories and
um identities and figures and move that
Beyond to other conversations as well
and I think yeah definitely this is a
perfect way of following up the
conversation and perhaps actually
looking into a perfect example of what
uh I was just talking about right so
yeah yeah absolutely
um you know so with that we won't do too
much more we'll turn it over to tra I uh
just so I want to just tell you a little
bit about uh her first Chiari ribo is a
Hawaii Maui uh interdisciplinary artist
and filmmaker base here in the Bay area
as well as Honolulu and she's the
founder and artistic director of Babe
lab Gallery as well as a co-founder of
refresh as an artist her work employs
storytelling and visual narrative to
make visible social and ecological
imbalances while imagining more
regenerative Futures and she also
explores how both our bodies and the
technology Technologies we use are
entangled with the environment she's
interested in re-centering indigenous
technology and stories that include
indigenous narratives and the experience
of kanaka maoli and diyasara
with that we will turn it over to you
tra welcome and thanks so much for being
here with us today
yeah it's an honor to be here uh thank
you so much for having me and really
excited to share
um a few projects about my practice that
really kind of explore the themes of the
conference in terms of worlding
symbiotic systems inter species
relationships uh and protocols uh that
I'm sure that are all tied into kind of
the interconnection of things
so as Wade mentioned I'm an
interdisciplinary artist with an
emphasis on film as well as installation
and digital art and it's a really hybrid
practice so I'll be moving between a few
different mediums that hopefully you
will see the connective tissue between
the projects
um
so I'm going to start with uh
an introduction to babe lab which is a
community space that I've helped run for
seven years I'm one of the co-founders
and we're
um
really a venue and gallery and community
space
for for artists who
um
create new media and digital art kind of
as a whole spectrum of work
um and we try to stay hyper local but we
also bring in artists from from
different parts of the continent
and we're located in Oakland and we're
just we just reopened so look out for us
in the future
um in terms of my personal practice uh I
wanted to start with the project cyano
Visions which is a body of work that's
really spent two years of research and
explore different kind of mediums of
installation film and was a highly
collaborative project uh that and as
well as kind of a World building project
that I hope to keep expanding
um
it explores speculative mutualisms with
cyanobacteria in an age of climate
collapse and really aims to reposition
the framing of ourselves to other
species in this case cyanobacteria and
our interconnectedness to them
cyanobacteria were one of the first or
the first species uh or organisms so
photosynthesize on the planet which
ultimately created the oxygen we breathe
and complex biodiversity and biodiverse
systems as we know it today
um now we're kind of seeing this in the
cyclical way
humans generating toxic algal blooms
which is uh due to kind of like systems
of different industrial and pollute you
know pollution and just kind of uh
management Resource Management type
stuff
um and we also create we you know we're
creating new life
um in terms of synthetic biology genetic
engineering and artificial life
so Santa visit Visions really posits
potentials for biological hybridities
um that recognize this inextricable
inextricable relationship of human
Cellar organisms so I'm going to play a
really short clip of a part of the film
which is uh co-directed by Jody
Stillwater
and I'm going to do a quick change of my
tab so you can hear the audio
thank you
[Music]
okay I'm switching tabs back
foreign
this was really the only way to share
audio with you guys so thanks for your
patience
um
so
yeah it's a 15 minute film if you have
time uh to check it out uh there's a
sort of there's animations that go into
it as well
um and it's been shown
as both a single Channel video and film
festivals as well as an installation
where you can kind of look at the
organisms of the sign of bacteria kind
of under the microscope and really
um kind of look at the different forms
that they take as biofilms
um I've shown it kind of in a little
very different kind of setups uh
including uh in the exhibition Lux
Eterna which means eternal
as a practice including
oh okay
hi everyone I'm back
so perfect timing about to talk about my
next project
uh which is called uh what which
involves both a website called The
bioplastic cookbook for ritual healing
from petrochemical Landscapes which uh
was part of a web residency with Academy
Schloss Solitude and zkm but it extends
into a larger practice that of of
creating bioplastics and really is more
of a provocation about uh material
relationships and our relationship to
the creation of materials versus kind of
the consumption of petrochemical
plastics and how that really you know is
a part of systemic issues related to
extractive Industries
um and and different systems so
um
the the website itself kind of outlines
protocols for creating different
bioplastics
um
in term and as well as kind of like
philosophical musings around that and
shows different examples of bioplastics
that I've made using the different
materials that are all plant-based uh
or bio base like gelatin which is uh not
not just plants
um but it kind of looks into also the
processes and and the care that's
embedded into the materials when you're
making them it's a longer process of
mixing heating liquids mixing them
pouring them waiting for them to dry
over two days so it really shifts kind
of our material relationships to labor
time and consumption
um and and it's more
almost like a meditation or a
transformational
um practice for me more so than I'm not
trying to upscale this or be
manufacturing on at any level but you
know it's it's a practice to provoke uh
these sorts of materials to kind of move
into the world and be more use other
people can manufacture them that'll be
great that's that's you know goal
accomplished and we're seeing it kind of
we're seeing them happen slowly
um I also play with speculative kind of
fiction in my work again so thinking
about uh
how these can be used for textiles the
fashion industry is hugely wasteful so
what are ways that we can use
biodegradable materials in the in our
garments or could we grow
textiles on our on our bodies these
types of things
I haven't really made practical garments
out of this yet it's been more
speculative and fun and process based
but I you know I have some images of
draping them and I've made them as
sculptural objects as well
so it's meant to kind of be more of a
practice that's that's an open source
guide to offering protocols so a lot of
other people can make these or use these
materials create and use these materials
around their world for
you know art making objects making Etc
and a lot of people DM me and they're
like hey look what I made using your
recipe and that's the best that's like
that's and more really about that
sharing of global Community versus you
know having my objects on display which
is nice this this is nice but for me
it's more about how to build a global
Community around these materials
speaking of materials
um moving into
a project that ties that it into my um
into my background as kanakamali or
native Hawaiian
um and this project looks into plastic
on plastic glomerate which was first
defined and discovered by a geologist
Patricia cocoran and sculptor Kelly
azvac in 2012 on Camilo Beach and ka'u
in Hawaii Island
and basically the heat from bonfires
um
as well as other heat kind of melted
together plastic debris that has washed
ashore with sand and rock and lava to
create this is you know from the South
Pacific Geyer to create this kind of new
conglomerate that geologists were really
excited about they're like oh it's a
marker for the anthropocene we have this
new geological marker Without Really
Ever considering
um the relationship to uh
the kanakamali at all
um
so
for us it's really the the lava all the
black rock that you see is really
um part of the body of the living
volcanic and Elemental Elemental deity
um who resides in the mouth of Kilauea
the active volcano or more specifically
crater
but you can really say that any of the
land uh
on the lava on Hawaii island is an
extension of pele's sacred body and as
kanaka we also look to Pele as our
ancestor so really she's an extension of
us and so is the lava and the land
so plus the glomerate I see is more of
the invasion of and the melding of
really like these toxic Colonial and
tetrochemical substances with uh
Pele and our body almost like a
desecration so you know something to
consider before being really excited
about band prophecy and as people get to
often are so
um in a two-channel video in
installation work this this body of work
has spanned two years as well
um I brought in my bioplastics and
wrapped them around lava rock to really
consider them as like a ho'okupu or an
offering
um of an alternative technology so to
speak to Plastics
um what what could biodegrade what what
won't invade the uh the lava and the
land
um and I physicianed a lava flows from
Kilauea next to uh
let our imagery and insar you know from
insar technology
that I also have in a virtual gallery on
new art city
um
and was shown in installation as well
um and it's going to be shown another
installation uh in which I'll maybe tell
you guys about after
um next month which I'm really excited
about
um in person in Africa so
um
anyway so this the lidar imagery is like
actively there's shooting at the land
which can also be seen as a like
continual invasion of the land
um that's trying to predict deformations
at Kilauea Summit but really there's no
way to really predict
her movements so
um the in the two Channel video it's
really
there's chance being used there's only
that on our Pele uh with the lava flow
and then there's just the the lidar data
that that you kind of move through as a
as a landscape
uh to juxtapose kind of these these two
belief systems and I think it's
important as we consider new ways of
being
um and and as we
can talk about dismantling systems that
need to be dismantled as a reminder that
like indigenous peoples need to be
included in the conversation when it
comes to environmental delegations or
even these technological
um you know the the building of the
geological monitoring station at Kilauea
um or you know the 30 ml do we need a 30
millimeter telescope in addition to the
13 telescopes that already exist on Mana
avakea the answer is no if it's not
serving a mutualistic goal with the
people on the land right
so
um you know we've been working for
hundreds of years to Millennia on this
in terms of worlding this this when we
inherently understand and see the world
as interconnected
all right last project
um this is a collaborative project with
uh
um called Kai Hai which is a hybrid of
ocean in olalo Hawaii and Mandarin
um and we've built kind of a series of
virtual and augmented reality
installations to utilize trans-pacific
stories
um
from Polynesia to East Asia to kind of
explore environmental issues indigenous
stories uh and diaspora across the
Pacific Ocean
so we started with uh this augmented
reality installation called nakili which
really pays homage to hinokuhala who is
the goddess of coral reefs and uh it was
she's just a filter that you can if you
go to Chin Chin's uh IG she's at 44 in
44 Ian you can access the filter and
really bring her to life anywhere but
she she likes to be along the coast or
in the ocean and she was first kind of
brought to life near kaimana beach in
Honolulu
and uh I worked with
an awesome place here that juxtaposes
humans with coral species and thinks
about our interconnectedness to each
other as well as you know it's
fashionable it's a good look
uh
for our second sculpture we looked at
the submarine cables that crossed the
Pacific Ocean
and
it was actually one of the first ones
landed in Hawaii
but now we have this outgrowth it's kind
of like this tentacular kind of monster
that's you know growing on the ocean
floor
um so we wanted to visualize that in a
goddex in like a deity a type of deity
that has been born from these
telecommunications submarine Cable
Systems
and we're just calling them OG
um which it takes from the acronym Asia
America Gateway which is the name of one
of the trans-pacific cables and
currently we're really excited to be
showing them in the effort Gallery uh
with Peter Wu
um and that is currently online and you
can access this Gallery through the gray
area Festival exhibition as well in
diorama
so uh
aglips there with a a dialogue that is
spoken that
uh between Hina of Mazu who is a Chinese
sea goddess and uh this new goddess
um uh and they're discussing kind of
like the
growth of Technology over the past 1000
years and currently in the gray area
exhibition we have uh one of the rooms
where you can see both of these
sculptures next to uh a video that
really is just meant to highlight the
dialogue that's being spoken between the
three of them
so I hope you get a chance to check that
out
and lastly
um just wanted to say what's coming next
I'm working on a film in Hawaii I'm
going back next month that really kind
of looks at the uh well where I grew up
which was this is the road I grew up on
and this is like the jungle I used to
play in as a kid
um as you see there's like these water
pipes that run through it they're always
kind of like moving water
uh through from from The Source kind of
down into the city so it's kind of
looking at the elemental Aqua or the you
know the forest
um
the elemental gods that reside in these
spaces and how
kind of they're they're kind of these
invisible Borders or these liminal
spaces where they exist that you can
really come in contact with and again
how the land is an extension however you
know it's it's looking into how the land
however we're connected to the land how
it's an extension of our bodies and of
us so
um these are just kind of shots that I
took last time uh that with uh Jason Chu
and this is Elise and Sean
um who are brother and sister who I hope
to be in the film
and again thinking about the borders of
the rainforest that most people don't
often think about and how to represent
them visually if you can't if you can't
see them how do you how do you feel them
so yeah that's that's my talk thank you
so much
that's info get in touch
wonderful
that was so great Tiara thank you so
much
um wow so many different projects to
like think about you know
um and you know some new ones you know
I'm very familiar with your work and
I've you know I've watched cyanovisions
evolve over the years
um and so it's exciting to see you know
the new directions that you're taking
and you know the different ways that
this dot project has evolved and also
you know how your practice has developed
into different you know media terrains
uh I you know it was really exciting to
install your work with 1010 and in the
diorama show
um and so just so everybody knows I
posted the links to all of those shows
in the chat on the live stream so
definitely check those out
um you can also go to again you can go
to tensions Instagram and you can try
the filters yourself
um you can also check out the epoch show
and the new art City show which are all
online
um
wow I don't even know where to begin
I think you know first and foremost you
know in thinking about worlds in
protocol what really strikes me about
your work is your ability to you know as
during and I were talking about before
like bring tradition into New Media
space bring the old and the new and
really
really upholds the the integrity and the
spirit of all of the stories that you're
telling
um uh from your community and of the
communities of your collaborators
um and I was wondering if you could talk
a little bit about you know as we were
discussing with the Mori a little bit
earlier today how you bring that care to
bring those stories bring those sacred
objects and artifacts you know and all
of those Traditions into the metaverse
care is really inherent like it's not
something that I have to
consider really I just
put it into everything I do whether it's
a film project
or an object that I'm making
um I think it's inherent and I think
that
that's just an important principle to
always remember when creating work
because if it's going to be shown
publicly you'll
whoever is receiving it will also
receive the energy that you put into it
so if it's with care they'll feel bad if
it's not you know
then they won't if it's you know
um
yeah
yeah and I also kept on thinking about
how you also tie or put together fuse
more than put just together
um several areas that I find very
interesting for this conversation how
can we envision these uh new worlds or I
don't know new but at least definitely
different from what we're currently
living at and I and I just couldn't help
but think a lot about how do we
integrate these non-human intelligences
into the whole conversation right
because that's also something that is
very very very important and and as you
were talking and showing us your
projects which I also think are amazing
um I kept on thinking about how for
instance in a lot of um indigenous
communities in Mexico pretty much for
most of them there is no concept of art
nor culture like there is not a word for
it there is no concept for that but what
we do have in a lot of these uh
especially within this indigenous
communities and their own languages
right so what we do have is a very very
strong connection and how can we talk
about beauty and Sensibility and
Aesthetics through nature so this
connection between of course tradition
but then also bringing in the technology
but also bringing in these non-non-human
intelligences
um oh pretty much you know everything
that's not human and not necessarily
thinking about you know technology or so
um I think it tastes very nicely with
that uh with that notion because I think
that in a way it's just you know I think
about a triangle here like we're talking
about how can we weave together all of
these conversations for us to be able to
Envision these new possibilities of uh
of ourselves of the places that we
inhabit and how can we move into these
other layers of reality and I think this
is a strong connection that you have
with uh with Biology and with non-human
intelligences is something that for me I
think is very compelling uh in order to
connect with all of these areas so I was
just wondering if you could talk a
little bit more about how are you
building these connections with these
non-human entities and what role do they
play Within all of your creative process
which I think that must be something
that ties very strongly to certain parts
of it so
maybe because I feel like before I
started making work that really tied
back to Hawaii I was I was always kind
of thinking
with this this world view that came from
growing up as kanaka in in Hawaii which
is thinking of
you know everything is alive uh
having
you know knowing that the elements uh
are also related to a Pantheon of of
deities or Gods
um and and growing up with their stories
right I grew up in this very a lot like
this this space where everything was
alive and that picture I showed you
where I was running through the jungle
um
it just kind of informed my world view
so I think when I started to make work
um I couldn't help but consider uh the
elements as as being living and and
playing a role
in things I I don't know what drew me to
Santa back to honestly except for the
fact that I did work in Kona on the big
island as on a on an algae farm to to
grow algae to biodiesel that's kind of
my
um biology background I didn't I went to
school a little bit for it but I was a I
was a lab tech uh uh it's about 10 years
10 years ago at this point
uh more than like just giving away my
age
um and it was just fascinating to see
that you can grow life so quickly
uh we you know I speak not cyanobacteria
specifically but we're working with a
similar kind of like microalgae species
that would grow very very quickly over a
week to to Giant like run right from
like little flasks to these Raceway
ponds that would then make all this like
um this biomass that could be converted
into fuel
um so that was just really fascinating
to me and I think that in addition to
the Hawaiian World View kind of informs
my work a lot you know and and I think a
lot of us pull in our life experiences
into our work and that's really kind of
like things that I'm pulling from and
thinking about
uh also I guess you can see a lot of
oceanic themes in my work or this
relationship to uh yeah the ocean and
and that's very much I think from
growing up near the ocean
wow um
you know what's the thing that I mean
the ocean is such a great metaphor
because in a lot of ways the ocean you
know connects all things
um you know on this one we're all made
of water salts all shores exactly and
and and and and on top of that you know
it's where all life emerged from you
know from the Briny Merck uh you know
thousands and thousands of years ago
um and so there's a lot to be said about
you know finding our origin Point as
beings on this Earth human non-human
living not living
um and you know something that you know
the whole this whole idea of worlding
protocol that we're approaching at this
at this Festival is really about how we
can imagine how we can really grasp all
of that interconnectedness and I really
you know your work with you know with
algae with cyanobacteria with these
microscopic organisms that are mostly
invisible you know uh or or just not
thought of by the average person you
know unless you have some kind of you
know infection or something like that
um only when you know these things are
directly impacting you in a negative way
um and I think that's really that's
really wonderful
um and I'd love to you know hear about
how
you know we as artists creators thinkers
and just people on this Earth can
think in a more how we can think through
that interconnectedness you know we were
talking about this with the more with
than Maury earlier
um about how we can think through the
metaverse through ideas of connection
and love versus ones of extraction
um and so I don't know do you have any
advice for how you know you know in your
work how you approach these ideas of
thinking through all of this
interconnectedness
thinking through interconnectedness yeah
again I think it's like an inherent
belief system not to keep bringing like
bringing that back but but it's it's
hard to not think of everything as
interconnected and I
um
so
um I think because of that because I do
think like I've always thought that way
I think that's why you see it being
brought up so much in my work
um and then I think it's important to
juxtapose
kind of the the other world or the
separation of Worlds right so I think
that a lot of us who create digital art
and we're in this you know we're often
online or we're you know we're on our
phones we're on our laptops it's all
made of like earth materials you know
um I did some research on Rare Earth
elements before
um
so like little particles of metal that
come together to these assemblages uh
through
uh these transformations of material
um
but but oftentimes we we miss like most
people miss that part so I think in my
work I try to juxtapose those worlds so
even in the in the excerpt I showed you
of cyanovision and you kind of see you
know there's a separation between the
cyanobacteria and the humans through
tubes
um there's kind of like the a more like
what's hinted at like a more symbiotic
way of like later on in the film you
just see people outside hanging out with
Santa Maria more or less
um sorry the lighting and uh
um so it's a so I aim to juxtapose that
with like this other character who's
having like it fed into their body via
the tubes uh pseudonym who is a very
talented uh drug performer uh was in
that
um so that character sort of showed this
other way of of kind of like the
dependency like the you know I just I
just watched the new Dune and I was like
oh I really like that scene is very like
giving her Conan you know I was very
like to drop a pop culture reference but
like yeah it was really giving these
harconan Vibes and that you know in June
they're kind of showing like living with
nature like versus
control you know I think it's it's very
much about control extraction versus you
know symbiosis mutualism
so
right now I mean we're we're in a very
extractive World
um with or we're living in the systems
that dominate
um
are very extractive so I think we have
to constantly reconsider
those systems and how to dismantle them
and the work just aims to do that all
the time
and also to remember that everything is
just a matter of scale really like there
there is no such thing as a like as an
individual
that has no connection to anything else
like I I remember this meme that I saw
last week that a friend of mine shared
that was these uh image of that it was
an illustration of a human body and it
just does like these close-ups from the
hand and from the mouth
um from several places and shows uh the
tiny ecosystems that live there and just
adds on these uh quotes like we were
never individuals right so so I guess
it's definitely a matter of scale and in
a way
once we understand ourselves as part of
a bigger ecosystem that doesn't only
encompasses our own I don't know like
human subjectivities I guess it's a very
powerful way of also trying to not only
understand how we connect with one
another within the human the human realm
but also with what is around us so and I
guess that sometimes we just forget to
talk about like this I don't know like I
guess the energetic balance that we are
constantly trying to push into one side
more than the other right like this
extractivist activity of you know
playing this role of being more than or
you know being faster stronger bigger
whatever and uh and forgetting about
what how does that look like or how does
that feel like
for the other living beings around those
and what does that mean for them you
know like we just cannot I don't know
like even if it's a matter of things uh
that are in a very very different scale
than us I think that trying to Envision
that somehow I think it's uh it's
something that is very powerful
and then I definitely see in your work I
know yeah no durian just to talk onto
what you're saying you know what you're
reminding me of is you know from from
the world of anthropology was you know
the the work of Eduardo De viveros
Castro
um you know who who wrote about the you
know not to use a really academic term
but the the ontological turn or a shift
in you know the study of anthropology
where people started you know where
it's really rooted in its objective
position right like we're in our bodies
we're experiencing the world through our
own subjective materiality you know how
can we understand our alterity or our
difference to something else
um and uh you know I've always
taken that you know so in my own kind of
interpretation you know American
anthropological so associations don't
come for me
um
like you know feeling is that like by
and this is something that I think New
Media does really well and what you do
fabulously well in your work sorry is by
you know really trying to create media
based experiences that bridge different
kinds of materialities the biological
the technological the living the
non-living
um you know the manufactured and the
natural
um the artificial and artificial in the
real
um and also you know
um again in
to talk about what you know to go back
to what Doreen was saying about feeling
about what it feels like the a
phenomenological approach so to speak
what it what is the experience actually
doing for us in your work really does
that in such a profound way
um and I've always really really
appreciated that about it
um yeah thank you so much
so um yeah I wonder about the legibility
and the trend you know the
translatability sometimes and and if
it's giving that
um so
we were talking about tech earlier in
big Tech and how you know a CEO at a
major company can never understand the
experience of you know as the Mori was
saying a single woman who lives in a
village and kind of the trees that she
touches and the smells that she smells
and
um you know this approach of trying to
though it's impossible then we can never
totally get there you know to try at
least to approach those different
subjective positions
um for some kind of deeper understanding
um you know that I think yeah that seems
like a problem we'll get for a Way
Forward
yeah and I'm realizing the more that I
work in kind of like film and video the
more
how immersive that that actually is as a
medium and how it kind of gets into
people's unconscious and I hope that
these more immersive installations do
that when people enter these these
virtual galleries that it's somehow you
know if it's
a CEO or like some someone who's working
in Tech comes in and they're like it
kind of seeps into their unconscious I
think of to bring another
uh villanuev movie into the picture
um not that I'm at I I prefer Dune over
this uh the new Blade Runner right the
2049 there's the dream make there's a
there's the character who creates dreams
kind of manufactures dreams and I think
that's really what the work is doing
essentially is it's a manufacture it's
well not manufacturing but it's creating
these these worlds that are reflections
of reality or kind of you know pulling
these different Notions of reality or or
speculations about reality uh a parallel
reality and now or in the near future or
or pulling from very
um
you know long-standing stories that are
still being told
um you know for for the kanaka it was
all oral histories so you didn't have
visual references you just had lived
experiences and then you had the oral
histories through
um olelo and Oli and Malay
um and hula so those were
um you know transferred
transferences of knowledges through uh
through through different Generations
so I really think of my responsibility
or my kuleana as like uh to continue the
trajectories of those stories and to
kind of like imagine new trajectories
into the future of how basic stories can
continue to stay alive because not only
in Hawaii but for many indigenous
cultures
um a lot of these stories have have been
lost suppressed worried so how do we
bring them back and and what are you
know I think I think of working Within
the digital art realm is kind of a
subversive way of doing that since it's
it's those boundaries aren't often
crossed
absolutely
um and you know speaking of those those
stories and um I always wanted you know
you presented about about uh about the
work in diorama and the epoch gallery
show
um and I was wondering if you could tell
us a little bit more about the mythology
surrounding
um surrounding the work surrounding the
series
um your collaboration with Q because I
know that you both brought a lot of your
um a lot of your history a lot of your
you know Community ideas and stories
into this
um and I'd love to give people a little
bit more of an insight into it because I
think it's really really fascinating
yeah absolutely
um so it's it's a collaborative work and
it started with us just really missing a
home and and talking about our our
relative homes on the coast
um Q is from one show which is a coastal
city and I'm from Honolulu
um so we're like What are the ways that
we reconnect to home
or Envision re-envision home and and
often it's through or these stories or
these we're thinking of like how can we
create the kind of symbols to or or
these trans-pacific portals represented
by these different kind of symbolic uh
sculptural Gods or
um that can embody these stories and and
you know help others in the diaspora
kind of feel reconnected to home that's
why we wanted to go with augmented
reality initially as a medium because
then anyone anywhere can pull up the
sculpture
um and have it connect them to the coast
or the ocean so it was like a bridging
of coasts and uh a bridging of right the
ocean connects everything so using the
ocean as as the main kind of medium
uh that transmits uh
transmits these stories and also
thinking about
um wayfinding and how
um specifically that is not an updated
video it's okay though
um I thought I updated the video in the
gallery
um
so thinking about like
uh the way finding and how uh
Polynesians came from Southeast Asia
um
on double hose canoes we talk about it
in this in this kind of like dialogue
um that was traversing the ocean right
um and and also uh
so
yeah so the conversation kind of um if
anyone has a chance to really like get
into the gallery and listen to the
conversation it's about 10 minutes then
you'll get more of a background on on
the on the stories that we share I'd
like to say stories and and live you
know because it's not really mythology
it's it's like kind of like a living uh
story that that is very real
um you know OG is a little bit of more
missiles it's speculation into like did
I cut out no I just stopped my screen
share
okay okay
um it's a little bit more of like a
Mythos uh around what this like Trend
specific
submarine cable deity could could be in
what they would say and what they would
like what they're you know what are they
feeling what is their what's their Vibe
what would they look like so
so I think we're both like drawing from
the past and the future uh and stories
around that wow stories and mythologies
yeah that's amazing
um you know again you guys can go to uh
Chan Chen's Instagram it's 4 4 Ian on
Instagram to try out the filters in
augmented reality uh you can also head
to newart.city to see the work installed
like I just showed in on new art city
um or you can go to epoch.gallery to see
the replicant show where the sister
installation is also is also on view and
I will note that uh at Epoch Gallery uh
OGG is posed against the Hong Kong
Skyline it's a futuristic Blade Runner
version of Hong Kong
um and in our show in the diorama show
uh nikili is po is is uh what's is posed
in front of Oahu it's a 3D scan of the
island of Oahu so both sculptures are in
their native habitats at the point where
the submarine cables that connect those
two places and share the inter internet
across the ocean where they where they
are and so that's just a I think that's
a really meaningful metaphor and really
speaks on a very literal level to all of
the things that we're talking about at
the festival
um
yeah we are we're running out of time
um and so I think we have to bring in
our next guest but Tora um is there
anything else that you wanted to add
about this work before we before we wrap
we're Doreen oh
um yeah let me pull up uh the next
oh oh tomorrow I'm speaking at the rodeo
ecologies to conference
um that's I don't there might not it
starts really early because it's on EST
it's it's like out of uh out of Buffalo
New York
um but if anyone wants to wake up really
early there'll be a bunch of talks
including me in the morning
um I speak at 10 45 a.m and I know
that's like probably overlapping with
some gray area festivities but um
that is happening tomorrow and just a
really cool conference it'll probably be
recorded and it's looking at similar
themes of symbiosis and the ruderal
oh
um I was like you know the the kind of
like the essence of the Earth's
um so to speak and uh then there's
another there's the overkill Festival
um that's happening in uh it's an art
and giving Festival in the Netherlands
um
that uh is curated by
I have a trouble saying his name uh
amazing brilliant curator
um
uh Makati
um who put together the Misawa
exhibition
um that is going to be the first like
physical iteration of uh this exhibit uh
which
um will be which has been online
um so if people want to check out like
the
um the digital version
m-i-s-a-v-a oh no it's gone where is it
um
it probably still exists
um maybe I'll send you a link wait but
the Oracle Festival that's coming up too
thank you
don't worry uh I just dropped a link to
the rural uh rudero uh ecologies
conference and uh my colleague has
dropped a link to the overkill Festival
so you can head on live dockerair.org
you can go to the chat and find those
links and we'll share those with
everybody after the fact as well
sorry thank you thank you so much thank
you so much such an honor to be a part
of this thank you yeah of course